---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# CLI Documentation

## Introduction

The **DXUP Command Line Interface (CLI)** (`dx`) lets you interact with your DXUP workspace from the command line, allowing you to:

- Create new DXUP projects from the Terminal
- Link a local project directory to an existing DXUP project
- Monitor status & logs of remote applications
- Utilize AI technology to improve developer experience (DX) & productivity
- And more!

Below is the list of available commands:

---

## `help`

Show list of available commands.

### Usage

- `dx help`
- `dx -h`
- `dx --help`

---

## `server`

### Sub-commands

- `dx server up`
- `dx server down`

---

## `login`

Usage: `dx login <your-workspace-url>`

### Examples

- `dx login https://apps.diginext.site`

---

## `logout`

Usage: `dx logout`

---

## `new`

Start new application from a starter framework.

Usage: `dx new`

---

## `init`

Initialize app at a current working directory.

Usage: `dx init`

## `ask` 🌟

Utilize AI technology to improve DX & productivity.

- Alias: `ai`

### Sub-commands

- `dx ask generate`: (Alias: `dx ask gen <something>`)
  - `dx ask generate dockerfile`: Using AI technology to generate a Dockerfile for the project (however, I still encourage everyone to learn Docker to be able to optimize build time and build size better, as the Dockerfile generated by AI is not very optimized).
  - `dx ask generate dockercompose`: (coming soon)
  - `dx ask gen test`: Write tests (coming soon)
- `dx ask why`: debug by terminal history logs (coming soon)

---

## `git`

Interacts with registered Git Provider of the workspace, such as: Github, Bitbucket,...

### Sub-commands

- `dx git login` - login to your git provider
    
    Usage:
    
    - `dx git login` - Login to the git provider of current working directory, if there is no git providers detected, Github will be selected as default.
    - `dx git login --github` - Authenticate `dx` CLI with Github
    - `dx git login --bitbucket` - Authenticate `dx` CLI with Bitbucket
- `dx git logout` - logout from all git providers
- `dx git pr` - create new pull request, alias `pullrequest`
    
    Usage: 
    
    - `dx git pr` - create a pull request to `main` branch
    - `dx git pr <destination-branch>` - create a pull request from current branch to destination branch
    - `dx git pr <from-branch> <to-branch>` - create a pull request from a branch to another

---

## `domain`

Manage domains of a deploy environment in applications.

### Sub-commands 

- `dx domain list` (Alias: `ls`)
- `dx domain new` (Aliases: `add`, `create`)
- `dx domain update` (Aliases: `modify`, `change`)
- `dx domain delete` (Aliases: `rm`, `del`)

---

## `registry`

Interacts with registered Containter Registries of the workspace.

Alias: `reg`

### Sub-commands

- `dx registry add`
- `dx registry connect` 
- `dx registry create-secret` (Alias: `allow`)

---

## `cluster`

Interacts with registered Kubernetes clusters of the workspace.

### Sub-commands

- `dx cluster connect`
- `dx cluster list`
- `dx cluster get`
- `dx cluster set`
- `dx cluster delete`

---

## `db`

Interacts with registered Cloud Databases of the workspace.

### Sub-commands

- `dx db healthz`
- `dx db backup`
- `dx db restore`

---

## `kb`

A command helper of `kubectl` to improve developer experience (DX) when managing multiple Kubernetes clusters.

### Sub-commands

- `dx kb list`
- `dx kb get`
- `dx kb set <resource>`

    Sub-commands:
    - `dx kb set image`
    - `dx kb set imagePullSecrets` (Alias: `dx kb set ips`)
    - `dx kb set port`
- `dx kb delete <resource>`: coming soon

---

## `build`

Request DXUP server to build and push current working application to the container registry.

---

## `run`

Build and run current working application on your computer using Docker.

---

## `up`

Request the DXUP server to build and deploy current working application to target deploy environment.

Alias: `deploy`

### Usage

- `dx up`: deploy app to development environment
- `dx up [--dev]`: similar as above
- `dx up --prod`: deploy app to production environment
- `dx up --env=<environment>`: deploy to specific environment

---

## `down`

Take down an application from its deploy environment.

---

## `rollout`

Roll out a release to production environment.

---

## `sleep`

Put an application's deploy environment to sleep mode, so it won't be accessible and resource comsumming.

---

## `awake`

Awake a "sleeping" application's deploy environment, so it will be back to work normally.

---

## `log`

View logs of application's deploy environment

- Alias: `logs`

### Usage

  `dx log [--env]`

### Example

- View logs of `dev` environment: `dx log` or `dx log --dev` or `dx log --env=dev`
- View logs of `prod` environment: `dx log --prod` or `dx log --env=prod`

---

## `dotenv`

### Sub-commands

- `dx dotenv upload [--env]` (alias: `up`, `push`)
- `dx dotenv download [--env]` (alias: `down`, `pull`)

---

## `free`

Free up your build server by cleaning up build cache and redundant container images.

---

## `transfer`

Transfer a git repository from a git provider to another.

Alias: `dx tf`

---

## `snippets`

Generate code snippets for some popular frameworks: Next.js, Nest.js, etc.

Alias: `dx snpt`

---

## `update`

Update the `dx` CLI to latest version.

---

## `version`

Print the current version of DXUP

- `dx -v`
- `dx version`
- `dx --version`